A class we talked about,
it can only extend one other class,
but it can implement multiple interfaces.
So this is how you might achieve
multiple inheritance in Java.
Besides Inheriting from a superclass
that inherits from another
superclass, you could
implement multiple interfaces.
And that way you get all of its abstract
methods that you would then implement.
Now, when you're implementing
multiple interfaces, the class header
must specify each of those interfaces
in this comma delimited list.
So in this case, we have a class
called electronic book, and
it's implementing two interfaces,
product and digital file.
So that would be a comma delimited list.
And then all of the abstract methods
that exist in both of those classes
are going to be in this class would
need to be implemented in this class.
If a class declares that it's gonna
implement multiple interfaces,
it must, again,
provide the abstract method.
So this one, electronic book, I have to
implement all methods from product and
all abstract methods from digital file or
I call myself abstract as well.
If more than one of the interfaces
that being implemented
contains a method with the same signature,
like look at this one
product has getSize and
no parameters and so
does DigitalFile, so that's two.
You've inherited two of these methods
that have the exact same signature.
What you can do in the implementing
class in electronic book is just
implement it one time and
that will satisfy that requirement.
So you wouldn't add two methods
in your electronic book class.
Now if there are multiple
interfaces being implemented and
two or more of them contain
a method with the same name but
a different return type.
The class is going to have
an error when attempting
to implement them because
there is a clash here.
So even though I said I'm doing getSize,
the one that returns a string,
it's an error,
who can tell why that's an error?
>> Because the return type isn't
necessarily the same thing as a signature
so it doesn't know what to look for
>> Exactly the return type is not a part
of a method signature.
The method signature is
the name in the parameter list.
So technically, both of those methods
have the same signature, right?
And now Java is smart enough to realize,
wait, they have the same signature but
they have a different return type,
this is a clash, you just can't do it.
Right, in addition to abstract methods,
interfaces can also contain default
methods as well as static methods.
So unlike abstract methods,
both of these types of methods
do provide implementation.
There was a point in time when interfaces
only contain abstract methods,
like that was the definition
of our interface was,
it's a special kind of class and
only contains abstract methods.
But that has since changed
as the language has evolved.
And they allow two other
kinds of methods now static,
which we talked about quite a bit, right?
Who remembers what's a static method?
>> Methods that are available
without an instance.
>> Okay, there we go and then default,
we have not talked about just yet,
but I wanna show you what
that means with an example.
So let's go ahead and
revisit our product interface.
Let's say that after we've
already produced this code,
it's already out in production, there's
already classes that are implementing it.
We realize we wanna update this interface,
right?
And we say yeah,
every product also has a price.
So we wanna add those relative
methods to the product interface.
So let's go back to product.
And we're gonna add a couple
of methods for price.
So we'll say double getPrice and
void setPrice,
Okay, so we have a problem here, right?
Again, by default,
these methods are implicitly
abstract, they're implicitly public.
Which means in the book class
we now have two methods that
have not been implement So
if we are already in production,
we already have like multiple classes
that are implementing this interface.
You can see how this
poses quite a challenge.
Once you've defined this interface,
you don't even wanna update it or
you're gonna break everyone
who has implementing you.
So that's why we have the default methods,
they allow you to provide
a default implementation,
so that they are not abstract and
your subclasses
are not on the hook, for
implementing those methods.
Now they can if they want to by
just overriding the method, but
they don't have to.
So, this avoids breaking all of
the implementing classes with
these newly added methods.
All right, so again,
these methods are called default methods.
They're methods within
the interface that will allow
the coder to provide
a default implementation for
this, and
this ensures backward compatibility.
All right, so
in order to make something default,
you would simply write the word
default in front of it.
So I can say default getPrice and
then I would need to
provide an implementation.
So, in here, this is really tricky,
cause my initial thought is to
make this price be zero, right?
Default initial, but what does that mean?
Any class that has implemented me,
has inherited getPrice.
If they are unaware, that I even
added this method then anyone who's
using their class and they called
getPrice, so it's free is free.
So you set this just be careful,
you can set it to whatever but
some initial value so
that we're not losing a ton of money.
Now if it's really that important
that the all implementing classes
update to provide implementation for
this method, you just let stuff break.
You make it a break and change,
you don't put a default method.
Stuff won't compile, and
those authors will know,
the interface was updated we
have to take care of that.
>> Is there any way to
make it return a message,
let's get a really complex application.
Someone's trying to figure out,
well, okay, why is my code breaking?
The interface updated, like director,
return a message to the system
that's using this interface,
like to return an error message to them so
they know what's happening.
>> No, you wouldn't do that,
you just let it break.
So when I go to open my stuff,
I don't need a message from anybody
because I can see it right here.
And he's straight up telling me
what's wrong and I say what?
I haven't implemented all the methods,
how not,
what methods am I supposed
to be implementing?
And then you see, crap,
he added two new methods here.
All right, so let's make this one default
to setPrice ,I don't have
a variable to even set this to.
So I can leave this as just the curly
braces alone, gives it a body.
I can leave it just like that or
I can not make a default and
force everybody [LAUGH]
to update their stuff
Questions
>> It seems like default for getters and
setters are less useful than
other methods, is that it?
>> Yeah, yeah probably.
Seems like with these interfaces,
basically what you're fundamentally doing
is forcing whoever's using your interface
to make the promise that they're gonna
fulfill whatever it is you're
telling them it needs to have.
>> That's right, that's right, all right,
let's talk about static
methods a bit more.
Like default methods,
static methods provide implementation,
they differ in that static
methods are not inherited,
by the implementing classes and
so, they cannot be overwritten.
Okay.
So this means that an interface's
static methods are not
available from the instance
of an implementing class.
So here, let's say I had
a myStaticMethod and product,
book would not be able to access that.
However, we could if
we just said product.,
again, remember static methods
do not require instantiation,
which we wouldn't be able to
do on an interface anyway.
And so to access that,
I would just say interface name dot and
then access the method.
All right,
key points to remember about interfaces,
they cannot be instantiated,
just like abstract classes.
Interfaces can be implemented by classes.
They can be extended, but
only by other interfaces.
Any class that implements an interface
has to implement all of its methods,
all of its abstract methods, or
it must declare itself as abstract.
And then by default, methods in
an interface are public and abstract.
So you don't need that
explicit declaration of such.
Notice we didn't put public,
we didn't put abstract.
And then in addition to abstract methods,
interfaces can also contain default and
static methods as well.